The most superficial region of the skin is the:
epidermis

The main components of the skin are the:
epidermis and dermis

Mark fell and skinned his knee (poor Mark). The scrape did not bleed. He must have only damaged the:
epidermis

Subcutaneous injections involve administration of medicine into the:
hypodermis

The epidermis is:
keratinized cutaneous membrane

How do nutrients reach the epidermis of the skin?
Diffusion transports nutrients from blood vessels in the dermis into the epidermis

Which of the following is NOT a function of the skin?
vitamin A synthesis

The region of skin that provides a tough barrier against pathogens and trauma is the:
epidermis

What tissue composes the epidermis of the skin?
keratinized stratified squamous epithelium

Which sensation is NOT detected by the skin?
equilibrium

Which of the following occurs if body temperature rises above normal?
Blood flow to the dermis increases

Which of the following is an appropriate skin response to cold?
Dermal blood vessels vasoconstrict

Why is vitamin D necessary?
Vitamin D is required for calcium absorption from the small intestine

Which of the following cells are arranged in layers, or strata, in the epidermis?
keratinocytes

Skin without keratin would be more likely to:
tear upon being mechanically stressed

From deep to superficial, what is the correct order of the layers of the epidermis in thick skin?
stratum basale, stratum spinosum, stratum granulosum, stratum lucidum, stratum corneum

All cells in the epidermis arise from mitotic activity in stratum:
basale

A splinter penetrated into the skin on the palmar surface of the hand. The splinter nearly reached stratum basale of the epidermis. What is the final layer injured by this splinter?
stratum spinosum of the epidermis

Trauma to stratum basale would NOT interfere with the skin's ability to:
shed dead cells

What type of intercellular junction bands together adjacent cells of all layers of the epidermis, making it stronger?
desmosome

Jaimie is blind and often uses braille (a system of raised dots) to read. What cell in the stratum basale helps her discriminate between the texture of the braille?
Merkel cell

Thin skin lacks stratum:
lucidum

Thick skin lacks
hair follicles

A callus may develop when both thin and thick skin are subjected to repeated pressure. Which layer of the epidermis develops the callus?
stratum corneum

The most superficial layer of the dermis is the:
papillary layer

What tissue composes the reticular layer of the dermis?
dense irregular connective tissue

Which of the following cells is associated with the dermis?
fibroblast

Despite the strength of the dermis, it is subject to tearing. How might a person know that the dermis has been previously stretched and/or torn?
Generally permanent stretch marks, or striae, appear

Jordan is deaf, but can feel vibrations of music through sensory receptors in his skin called:
lamellated (Pacinian) corpuscles.

We have unique patterns on our fingers, toes, palms, and soles created by:
epidermal ridges

Exposure to UV radiation causes the skin to darken by increasing the production of:
melanin

How do melanocytes and keratinocytes work together to protect the skin from UV damage?
Keratinocytes accumulate melanin granules to shield the keratinocyte's DNA.

Which of the following is a yellow-orange skin pigment?
carotene

Exercise often makes the skin flush red, a condition known as:
erythema

What does cyanosis signify?
A person has oxygen-starved skin

What do dead keratinized cells form?
hair shaft

For a male post-puberty, the majority of vellus hairs have transitioned to:
terminal hairs

Eccrine glands produce:
sweat containing mostly water

Frequent handwashing removes the antimicrobial secretions of:
sebaceous glands

Humans often purchase antiperspirants and deodorants to suppress and mask the odors of secretions from the:
X eccrine glands
apocrine glands
mammary glands
X sebaceous glands