Which of the following does NOT belong to the axial skeleton?
pectoral girdle

What is the main function of the bones of the appendicular skeleton?
aid in motion

Where (out of the following possibilities) would you find fibrocartilage in the skeletal system?
between the vertebrae

Which bone marking provides a site where bones articulate or to which ligaments and tendons attach?''
projection

Which of the following is NOT a type of depression in a bone?
foramen

Which of the following is an opening in a bone?
canal (meatus)

Which of the following is NOT a function of the axial skeleton?
aid in motion

Which of the following is NOT a cranial bone?
zygomatic bone

Which of the following is an unpaired facial bone?
mandible

Which pair of bones meets along the sagittal suture?
parietal bones

The largest and strongest bone in the body is the:
femur

What bones meet at the lambdoid suture?
the occipital bone and parietal bones

Through what hole in the occipital bone does the spinal cord travel
foramen magnum

The thumb is the ________ while the great toe is the ________.
pollex; hallux

Which cranial bone is unique in that it articulates with every other cranial bone?
sphenoid bone

The palatine bone contributes to the structure of the:
hard palate

Geri has pain behind her ear lobe and was diagnosed with mastoiditis. Which bone is affected?
temporal bone

Which bones house teeth?
mandible and maxillary bones

The only movable bone of the adult skull is the:
mandible

What bone does NOT articulate with any other bones?
hyoid bone

Which of the following bones does NOT house a paranasal sinus?
nasal bone

What bone does NOT contribute to the formation of the orbit?
temporal bone

What part of the femur articulates with the tibia to form the knee joint?
medial condyle and lateral condyle

Vertebrae in which region are fused in adults?
sacral vertebrae

How many lumbar vertebrae exist in the vertebral column?
5

A heavily-pregnant woman who walks with a swayback exhibits an abnormal spinal curvature known as:
lordosis (or hyperlordosis)

What is the function of the spinous process of each vertebra?
functions as a site of muscle attachment

What does the first cervical vertebra (C1 or atlas) lack?
vertebral body and spinous process

To what part of the tibia does the patellar ligament attach?
tibial tuberosity

What unique feature is present only on the thoracic vertebrae?
superior and inferior costal facets (articulation sites with ribs)

The three portions of the sternum, from superior to inferior, are:
manubrium, body, xiphoid process

True ribs include:
ribs 1-7.

What part of the scapula articulates with the humerus?
glenoid cavity

What bones form the pectoral girdle?
scapula and clavicle

In anatomical position, the ulna is ________ to the radius.
medial

What bones form the forearm (antebrachium)?
ulna and radius

Kelly fell while ice skating and injured her scaphoid bone. What region of her body was injured?
wrist

How many phalangeal bones are in each hand?
14

What three bones fuse during childhood to form the coxal bone?
ilium, ischium, pubis
	
What part of the ischium bears our weight when we sit?
ischial tuberosity