Histology is the study of:
tissues

Tissues are structurally more complex than:
cells

What general category of tissue binds, supports, and protects the body?
connective

What component of ground substance adheres cells to each other and to their places within the extracellular matrix (ECM)?
glycoproteins

What type of protein fiber of the extracellular matrix has the property of being extensible and recoiling after stretching?
elastic

Protein channels (composed of connexons) that are situated between cells and create small pores for the passage of small substances are:
gap junctions


What type of cell junction would most likely prevent water from flowing between our cells?
tight junctions

Some layers of cells in the epidermis are held tightly together so that an impermeable barrier to fluids is created. What type of junction performs this function?
tight junction

The free surface of an epithelial tissue is the:
apical surface.

The extracellular matrix (ECM) of epithelial tissue is composed of the:
basement membrane

You examine a tissue slide through the microscope and recognize one layer of cells that are mostly tall and elongated. You determine this tissue to be:
simple columnar epithelium.

The function of simple cuboidal epithelium is:
diffusion for the process of secretion

Which of the following is composed of multiple layers of cells?
transitional epithelium

Which organ system is lined by transitional epithelium to accommodate stretching?
urinary system

Glands, such as the thyroid, that secrete their products directly into the blood rather than through ducts are classified as:
endocrine

What type of secretion involves the release of substances, such as saliva and sweat, in secretory vesicles by exocytosis?
merocrine

In dense regular connective tissue, collagen fibers are produced by cells called:
fibroblasts

Which of the following is NOT a location of reticular tissue?
tendons

Which of the following is a mature cartilage cell that resides within a small cavity in the ECM called lacunae?
chondrocytes

Which of the following is constructed of elastic cartilage?
external ear

What makes cartilage an unusual connective tissue?
Cartilage essentially lacks blood vessels coursing through the cartilage

Bone, or osseous, tissue provides protection for our vital organs because the inorganic portion of the ground substance is composed of:
calcium phosphate crystals

A tissue is more likely to heal by regeneration if it:
possesses stem cells

What type of blood cell transports oxygen throughout the body?
erythrocyte

Striated, multinucleate cells are commonly found in:
skeletal muscle tissue

What do skeletal and cardiac muscle cells share in common?
striations

Cells that generate, conduct, and receive electrical messages are:
neurons

A serous membrane contains a superficial layer of epithelial tissue and a deeper layer of connective tissue. Thus, serous membranes are technically classified as:
organs

Mesothelium is the simple squamous epithelium portion of parietal and visceral pleura, pericardium, and peritoneum. Therefore, a patient that is diagnosed with mesothelioma has cancer that affects the:
serous membranes

Which of the following is the innermost part of a serous membrane that covers the lungs?
visceral pleura

Synovial membranes:
line the cavities surrounding freely movable joints

What type of membrane lines cavities that open to the outside of the body?
mucous membrane

What happens to epithelial tissue damaged from a superficial paper cut?
Epithelial tissue heals by regeneration

The permanent replacement of normal tissue by scar tissue is called:
fibrosis

Fibrosis results in the formation of a type of:
dense irregular connective tissue




















