Which division of the peripheral nervous system (PNS) detects stimuli and carries them to the central nervous system (CNS)?
sensory

The sympathetic nervous system and parasympathetic nervous system are divisions of the:
visceral motor division (or autonomic nervous system, ANS)

What is the outermost connective tissue covering of a nerve?
epineurium

Mixed nerves house parts of:
both sensory and motor neurons

Which of the following houses axons of motor neurons?
anterior (ventral) root of spinal nerve

What connective tissue sheath wraps the axon of a neuron?
endoneurium

What is the name of cranial nerve VIII?
vestibulocochlear nerve

Which of the following cranial nerves is a mixed nerve?
glossopharyngeal nerve (IX)

Which cranial nerve is NOT involved in eye movement?
vestibulocochlear nerve (VIII)

The cranial nerves that have neural connections with the tongue include all of the following EXCEPT:
trochlear nerve (IV)

What connects the upper motor neurons to lower motor neurons?
interneurons

What type of neuron contacts a muscle fiber and initiates a muscle contraction?
lower motor neuron

Autonomic motor neurons do NOT innervate:
skeletal muscle cells

Somatic motor neurons innervate:
skeletal muscle cells

Where are autonomic ganglia located?
peripheral nervous system (PNS)

Where does the cell body of the preganglionic neuron originate?
central nervous system (CNS)

Where do the cell bodies of preganglionic neurons of the sympathetic nervous system originate?
thoracic and upper lumbar regions of the spinal cord

As Julia drove back home, she was suddenly alerted to the sound of a loud car horn. Which nervous system division dominated when she was startled awake?
sympathetic nervous system

Which division of the nervous system is often called our "rest and digest" division?
parasympathetic nervous system

Receptors that bind to norepinephrine and epinephrine are known as:
adrenergic

Receptors that bind to acetylcholine are known as:
cholinergic

Which of the following participates in emotion, memory, learning, and behavior?
Limbic system

When repolarization of a neuron is complete, the ___________________.
Original resting membrane potential of the neuron is restored

What best characterizes the function of the parasympathetic nervous system?
The parasympathetic nervous system maintains homeostasis when the body is at rest

What neurotransmitter is released by both preganglionic and postganglionic parasympathetic neurons at their synapses?
acetylcholine

What effect does the parasympathetic nervous system have on heart rate?
decreases heart rate

Which of the following is NOT an effect of the parasympathetic nervous system?
increased sweat secretion

What part of the brain largely controls homeostatic functions?
hypothalamus

Most organs are innervated from both the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems, referred to as:
dual innervation

The speed of nerve impulse transmission through the axon of a sensory neuron will be quickest in:
myelinated axon

Ms. Parker has damage to the sensory root of the facial nerve (VII). Which of the following symptoms matches this information?
inability to taste

The inability to produce a gag reflex could indicate a problem with the:
glossopharyngeal nerve (IX) or vagus nerve (X)

Which mechanoreceptor detects deep pressure?
lamellated (Pacinian) corpuscle

Which of the following does NOT characterize a reflex?
Neural integration of a reflex usually occurs in the PNS

Which of the following must occur first in a reflex arc?
detection by receptor and delivery of stimulus

A simple reflex with only a single synapse between the sensory and motor neurons is known as a:
monosynaptic reflex

Where is the primary somatosensory cortex (general sensory area) located?
The postcentral gyrus

Synaptic vesicles are found in the ___________________ of a neuron.
Axon terminals