Determine the functional joint classification that provides the greatest mobility.
diarthrosis

Which of the following best represents the functional classifications of joints ranked from least movable to most movable?
synarthrosis, amphiarthrosis, diarthrosis

Which of the following is NOT a functional joint classification?
synovial

Which of the following is a freely movable joint?
diarthrosis

Functionally, how are cartilaginous joints classified?
synarthroses or amphiarthroses

Which structural joint classification is held together by dense regular collagenous connective tissue?
fibrous

Classify these joints to the correct structural classification: sutures, syndesmoses, and gomphoses.
fibrous

The structure of fibrous joints allows them to provide:
stability

Which type of fibrous joint is found between bones of the cranium?
suture

Which of the following is an example of a syndesmosis?
the interosseous membrane situated between the radius and ulna in the forearm

Syndesmosis is to ligament as symphysis is to:
fibrocartilage

Which of the following best describes cartilaginous joints?
little, if any, motion

Which of the following is a cartilaginous joint?
synchondrosis

Which of the following is an example of a synchondrosis?
an epiphyseal plate found between the shaft (diaphysis) and the end (epiphysis) of a long bone

Synchondroses unite bones with ________ while symphyses unite bones with ________.
hyaline cartilage; fibrocartilage

Which of the following cartilaginous joints is found only in young, growing people?
epiphyseal plate

Which of the following cartilaginous joints functions primarily in protection and shock absorption of the spinal column?
intervertebral disc

What feature is NOT one of the 3 unique features of a synovial joint?
tendon sheath

Articular cartilage found at the ends of long bones serves to:
reduce friction and absorb shock

Since articular cartilage is avascular, what provides oxygen and nutrients and removes metabolic wastes?
synovial fluid

What do ligaments connect together?
bones

Which key feature distinguishes a synovial joint from other joint types?
presence of a joint cavity

What type of joint allows motion around only one axis?
uniaxial

What type of motion at a synovial joint does NOT involve the movement of a joint around an axis?
gliding

Flexion and extension are types of:
angular movements

Which of the following movements is an example of abduction?
spreading the fingers apart

While eating, you move your forearm and hand from the plate of food toward your face. Classify the movement occurring at the elbow joint.
flexion

Where would a gliding movement most likely occur?
between the intercarpal joints of the wrist

Which type of angular movement moves a body part away from the midline of the body or another reference point?
abduction

While warming up for gym class, Emily performed a set of jumping jacks. This action involves:
abduction and adduction

When a very loud sound is heard very close to you, your mouth might drops open in surprise. This movement is described as:
depression

A ballerina who stands on the tips of her toes is performing:
plantar flexion

Shaking your head as if to say "no" is a joint movement known as:
rotation

Out of the following, where can pronation and supination occur?
proximal radioulnar joint of the forearm

Classify the shoulder joint.
multiaxial (triaxial) joint

Classify the elbow, which is structured with the convex surface of one bone fitting into the concave depression of another bone.
hinge joint

Which type of synovial joint is the simplest and least mobile and includes the intercarpal joints of the wrist?
plane joint

Where is a condylar joint found?
metacarpophalangeal joints of fingers 2-5

What type of joint is a ball-and-socket joint?
multiaxial (triaxial) joint

What type of biaxial joint is characterized by articulating bones with a deeper complementary fit, one with a convex surface and the other with a concave surface?
saddle joint

