Which of the following is NOT a function of the skeletal system?
communication among regions of the body

Bone is the most important storehouse in the body for:
calcium

Blood cells are made in the red bone marrow of bones, a process known as:
hematopoiesis

The bones of the arms and legs are classified as:
long bones

Thin, broad bones are classified as:
flat bones

The term diploë refers to the:
X double-layered nature of the connective tissue covering the bone
X fact that most bones are formed of two types of bone tissue
internal layer of spongy bone in flat bones
X two types of marrow found within most bones

The patella is classified as a sesamoid bone because it:
is located within tendons

Charlie has a break in the shaft of his thigh bone. He broke the:
diaphysis

The hard, dense bone that forms the outer surface of bones is:
compact bone

The periosteum is secured to underlying bone by collagen fibers called:
perforating fibers

What structure allows the diaphysis of the bone to increase in length?
epiphyseal plate

Why is articular cartilage an important part of long bone structure?
Articular cartilage allows bones to rub together with reduced friction at joints

The function of yellow bone marrow is:
triglyceride storage

Whose bone marrow is mostly red?
infants

What accounts for the majority of bone (osseous) tissue matrix?
calcium salts

Why are collagen fibers such an important component of bone tissue?
Collagen fibers help bone resist twisting, pulling, and stretching

How would removing hydroxyapatite crystals from the bone matrix affect the properties of a bone?
The bone would be more flexible

What cells participate in bone deposition?
osteoblasts

Bones are constantly undergoing resorption for various reasons. What cells are involved in this process?
osteoclasts

Which of the following cells develop into osteoblasts?
osteogenic cells

Relatively inactive bone cells that help to maintain the ECM are:
osteocytes

The small, fluid-filled cavity occupied by an osteocyte is called a(n):
lacuna

The structural units of mature compact bone are:
osteons

What type of bone is adapted to withstand stresses arriving from many directions?
spongy bone

Which of the following best describes primary bone?
Primary bone contains abundant osteocytes and little inorganic matrix

What cells contribute to calcification during intramembranous ossification?
osteoblasts

Primary ossification centers develop in long bones in the:
diaphysis

Secondary ossification centers are characteristic of:
endochondral ossification

What type of bone growth do you think a 40-year-old male experiences?
	appositional growth

Which of the following structures in a bone persists for life?
articular cartilage

In the epiphyseal plate of a long bone, cartilage grows:
by pushing the epiphysis away from the diaphysis

Within the epiphyseal plate, which zone houses actively dividing cartilage cells in their lacunae?
zone of proliferation

What prompts the closure of the epiphyseal plate (around age 18-21)?
ossification of the zone of proliferation

What is NOT an effect of growth hormone?
x Growth hormone increases the rate of mitosis in the epiphyseal plate of growing bones
X Growth hormone increases the activity of osteogenic cells
Growth hormone promotes the closure of the epiphyseal plate
X Growth hormone directly stimulates osteoblasts in periosteum to promote appositional growth

Which dietary requirement for bone health can be made in response to skin exposure to UV light?
vitamin D

Which of the following does NOT correctly depict the effects of parathyroid hormone (PTH)?
PTH decreases blood calcium ion concentration

Calcitonin (produced by the thyroid gland) functions to:
increase bone deposition

What vitamin deficiency causes rickets in children?
vitamin D

As a result of the increase of testosterone at puberty for males:
appositional bone growth increase
