Muscles with a triangular shape, such as the pectoralis major muscle in the chest, typically have a:
convergent fascicle arrangement

Which of the following best describes the structure of fusiform skeletal muscle?
Fusiform muscles tend to be thicker in their belly and taper at their ends

Which of the following muscle names contains a directional term?
vastus lateralis

What can you tell about a muscle whose name includes the word serratus?
Its appearance is serrated or jagged

Biceps brachii and triceps brachii perform opposing actions and, thus, are classified as:
antagonists

What type of muscle performs an anchoring function by holding a bone in place?
fixator

Which type of muscle works together with the agonist?
synergist

In the human body, what is the fulcrum in a lever system?
The fulcrum is the joint at which movement occurs

What lever class has the fulcrum situated between the force and the load?
first-class lever

Most levers in the human body are:
third-class levers

What joint serves as the fulcrum when triceps brachii extends the forearm?
elbow joint

A lever system works at a mechanical advantage when:
the fulcrum is located farther from the applied force

Standing on tiptoes is an example of a:
second-class lever system

Which of the following muscles is NOT associated with the mouth?
orbicularis oculi

Which muscle forms the anterior surface of the neck?
platysma

Which of the following is the action of the frontalis muscle?
Frontalis elevates the eyebrow

What is NOT a bone to which the sternocleidomastoid muscle is attached?
mandible

Damage to the trapezius would cause a person to have difficulty:
extending the head

Damage to the stylohyoid and mylohyoid impairs the ability to:
swallow

The masseter and temporalis muscles provide much of the force for:
chewing

Which eye muscle elevates the eye (as in looking up)?
superior rectus muscle

From superficial to deep, the 3 muscles of the lateral abdominal wall are:
external oblique, internal oblique, transversus abdominis

Which of the following muscles is NOT involved in breathing?
external oblique muscle

Which muscle provides voluntary control of defecation?
external anal sphincter

Which muscle elevates the scapula?
levator scapulae

Which muscle is a powerful agonist of adduction, medial rotation, and extension of the arm?
latissimus dorsi

The action of the deltoid muscle is:
abducting the arm

Which of the following extends the forearm?
triceps brachii

Which muscle flexes the hand and abducts the hand?
flexor carpi radialis

What is the action of flexor carpi ulnaris?
flex the hand

Muscles that move the thumb will be named using the term:
pollicis

Which of the following muscles extends the leg at the knee joint?
rectus femoris

Which group is a synergist to the adductor group?
gracilis

The quadriceps femoris group includes all of the following EXCEPT:
biceps femoris

Which muscle abducts the thigh, medially rotates the thigh and pelvis of the moving limb during walking?
gluteus minimus

Which muscle is an antagonist to the gastrocnemius muscle?
tibialis anterior

A muscle that dorsiflexes the foot is the:
tibialis anterior

Each of the following muscles acts to extend the thigh and flex the leg, EXCEPT:
vastus lateralis

When climbing stairs, which muscle or muscle group flexes your leg at the knee?
hamstring group
